=head1 NAME

Log::Report::Win32Locale - unix/windows locales

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Log::Report::Win32Locale
   is a Exporter

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Windows uses different locales to represent languages: codepages. Programs
which are written with Log::Report however, will contain ISO encoded
language names; this module translates between them.

The algorithms in this module are based on Win32::Locale and Win32::Codepage.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

B<charset_encoding>

=over 4

Returns the encoding name (usable with module Encode) based on the current
codepage.  For example, C<cp1252> for iso-8859-1 (latin-1) or C<cp932> for
Shift-JIS Japanese.  Returns undef if the encoding cannot be identified.

=back

B<codepage_to_iso>(CODEPAGE)

=over 4

Translate windows CODEPAGE into ISO code.  The CODEPAGE is numeric
or a hex string like '0x0304'.

=back

B<iso_locale>([CODEPAGE])

=over 4

Returns the ISO string for the Microsoft codepage locale.  Might return
C<undef>/false.  By default, the actual codepage is used.

=back

B<iso_to_codepage>(ISO)

=over 4

Returns the numeric value of the codepage.  The ISO may look like
this: C<xx_YY>.  Then, first the C<xx_YY> is looked-up.  If that does
not exist, C<xx> is tried.

=back

B<ms_codepage_id>

=over 4

Returns the numeric language ID for the current codepage language.
For example, the numeric value for C<0x0409> for C<en-US>, and C<0x0411>
for C<ja>.  Returns false if the codepage cannot be identified.

=back

B<ms_install_codepage_id>

=over 4

Returns the numeric language ID for the installed codepage language.
This is like L<ms_codepage_id()|Log::Report::Win32Locale/"FUNCTIONS">, but refers to the codepage that was
the default when Windows was first installed.

=back

B<ms_locale>

=over 4

Returns the locale setting from the control panel.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Log-Report distribution version 0.28,
built on May 31, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/log-report/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

