=head1 NAME

Log::Report::Lexicon::POTcompact - use translations from a POT file

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Log::Report::Lexicon::POTcompact
   is a Log::Report::Lexicon::Table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # using a PO table efficiently
 my $pot = Log::Report::Lexicon::POTcompact
             ->read('po/nl.po', charset => 'utf-8')
    or die;

 my $header = $pot->msgid('');
 print $pot->msgstr('msgid', 3);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is translating, based on PO files. PO files are used to store
translations in humanly readable format for most of existing translation
frameworks, like GNU gettext and Perl's Maketext.

Internally, this module tries to be as efficient as possible: high
speed and low memory foot-print.  You will not be able to sub-class
this class cleanly.

If you like to change the content of PO files, then use
L<Log::Report::Lexicon::POT|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT>.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Log::Report::Lexicon::POTcompact-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

See L<Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Constructors">

=item Log::Report::Lexicon::POTcompact-E<gt>B<read>(FILENAME, OPTIONS)

Read the POT table information from FILENAME, as compact as possible.
Comments, plural-form, and such are lost on purpose: they are not
needed for translations.

 -Option --Default
  charset  <required>

=over 2

=item charset => STRING

The character-set which is used for the file.  You must specify
this explicitly, while it cannot be trustfully detected automatically.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<filename>()

Returns the name of the source file for this data.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<index>()

Returns a HASH of all defined PO objects, organized by msgid.  Please try
to avoid using this: use L<msgid()|Log::Report::Lexicon::POTcompact/"Managing PO's"> for lookup.

=back

=head2 Managing PO's

=head3 Translation

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<msgid>(STRING)

Lookup the translations with the STRING.  Returns a SCALAR, when only
one translation is known, and an ARRAY wherein there are multiple.
Returns C<undef> when the translation is not defined.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<msgstr>(MSGID, [COUNT])

Returns the translated string for MSGID.  When not specified, COUNT is 1
(the single form).

=back

=head3 Administration

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<add>(PO)

See L<Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<header>(FIELD)

See L<Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<nrPlurals>()

See L<Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<pluralIndex>(COUNT)

See L<Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<setupPluralAlgorithm>()

See L<Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<translations>([ACTIVE])

See L<Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Administration">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: only acceptable parameter is 'ACTIVE'

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Log-Report distribution version 0.992,
built on December 21, 2012. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/log-report/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2012 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

